docs(instance): snapshot import-export feature MTA-2098 (#736)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/instances/api-cli/snapshot-import-export-feature.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Using snapshot import/export features with the API

>   description: This page explains how to import/export Instances snapshots using the Scaleway API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: This page explains how to import/export Instance snapshots using the Scaleway API
```

content:
  h1: Using snapshot import/export features with the API

>   paragraph: This page explains how to import/export Instances snapshots using the Scaleway API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page explains how to import/export Instance snapshots using the Scaleway API
```

dates:
  validation: 2022-07-25
  posted: 2021-07-25
---

> The snapshot transfer feature allows to export or import Instances snapshots. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The snapshot transfer feature allows you to export or import Instances snapshots. 
```

> Snapshots are created using the QCOW2 format and stored in a Scaleway Objetct Storage Bucket that holds the data. These images can then be used to create a copy of an instance on a different AZ.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Snapshots are created using the QCOW2 format and stored in a Scaleway Objetct Storage Bucket that holds the data. These images can then be used to create a copy of an Instance in a different AZ.
```

> Snapshots are created using the QCOW2 format and stored in a Scaleway Objetct Storage Bucket that holds the data. These images can then be used to create a copy of an Instance in a different AZ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Snapshots are created using the QCOW2 format and their data is stored in a Scaleway Object Storage Bucket. These images can then be used to create a copy of an Instance in a different AZ.
```

> More information on this file format, and how to use it can be found in the [QEMU documentation](https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/system/images.html#cmdoption-image-formats-arg-qcow2).

Author: ```suggestion
More information on the QCOW2 file format, and how to use it can be found in the [QEMU documentation](https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/system/images.html#cmdoption-image-formats-arg-qcow2).
```

<Message type="tip">

> This document shows you how to use this functionality using the Scaleway API. The import/export feature is also available in the Console, CLI, and SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document shows you how to use this functionality using the Scaleway API. The import/export feature is also available in the console, CLI, and SDK.
```

> This document presents how to use this functionality using the Scaleway API. The import/export feature will also be available in the Console, CLI, and SDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document shows you how to use this functionality using the Scaleway API. The import/export feature is also available in the Console, CLI, and SDK.
```

</Message>

<Message type="requirement">

>   - You have a [Scaleway account](/Console/my-account/how-to/create-an-account/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have a [Scaleway account](/console/my-account/how-to/create-an-account/)
```

>   - You have [configured your API keys](/Console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have [configured your API keys](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
```

  - You have an Instance using [Block Storage volumes](/storage/block/how-to/create-a-volume)
  - You have created a [snapshot](/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-snapshot)
  - You have created an [Object Storage bucket](/storage/object/how-to/create-a-bucket)

</Message>

## Exporting snapshots

1. Create a Scaleway Object Storage bucket.

>     You need an S3 bucket to export your QCOW2 file into. Any bucket that belongs to the same project as the snapshot can be used. However, if you don't have one already, you can [create it](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/storage/object/how-to/create-a-bucket/) in the Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You need an S3 bucket to export your QCOW2 file into. Any bucket that belongs to the same project as the snapshot can be used. However, if you don't have one already, you can [create it](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/storage/object/how-to/create-a-bucket/) in the console.
```

>     You need a S3 bucket to export your QCOW2 file into. Any bucket that belongs to the same project as the snapshot can be used. However, if you don't have one already, you can [create it](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/storage/object/how-to/create-a-bucket/) in the Console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You need an S3 bucket to export your QCOW2 file into. Any bucket that belongs to the same project as the snapshot can be used. However, if you don't have one already, you can [create it](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/storage/object/how-to/create-a-bucket/) in the Console.
```

2. Create a snapshot from a volume.

>     You will need to create a snapshot from the volume you want to export to use this functionality. If you have not done so already, refer to the [documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-snapshot#how-to-create-a-snapshot) for instructions how to do that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You will need to create a snapshot from the volume you want to export to use this functionality. If you have not done so already, refer to the [documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-snapshot#how-to-create-a-snapshot) for instructions on how to create a snapshot.
```

3. Call the `export` snapshot API endpoint to initiate the snapshot export. 
    For example, using curl:
    ```json
    $ curl -X POST https://api.scaleway.com/instance/v1/zones/fr-par-1/snapshots/<snapshot_uuid>/export -H "X-Auth-Token: <scaleway_secret_id>" -H "Content-Type: application/json"  --data '{"bucket": "my-bucket", "key": "my-exported-snapshot.qcow2"}'
    ```

>     The follwing information is required to run the command above: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The following information is required to run the command above: 
```

>      - The Avilability Zone of the snapshot (here: `fr-par-1`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - The Availability Zone of the snapshot (here: `fr-par-1`)
```

     - The secret key of your API keypair (`<scaleway_secret_id>`)
     - The snapshot ID (`<snapshot_uuid>`)
     - The name of the Object Storage bucket to store the snapshot (which has to exist in the same Scaleway region as the snapshot)

>      - A key (can be any acceptable key for Scaleway S3 ( suffixing qcow2 images with .qcow2)

Reviewer: the key part isn't very clear for me - is it the name for the snapshot?

Author: Yes it is the file name of the object

    The API returns an output as in the following example:
    ```json
    {
    "task": {
        "id": "<task_uuid>",
        "description": "export_snapshot",
        "status": "pending",
        "href_from": "/snapshots/<snapshot_uuid>/export",
        "href_result": "https://s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/my-bucket/my-exported-snapshot.qcow2",
        "started_at": "2022-07-25T15:23:49.278630+00:00",
        "terminated_at": null
    }
    }
    ```

## Importing snapshots

> Any snapshot (a valid QCOW2 image) imported to a Scaleway Object Storage bucket, can be imported into Instances in the same Region as the snapshot. This allows you to create Instances in other Avilable Zones within the same region, for example you can deploy Instances in `fr-par-2` based on the snapshot exported from an Instance in `fr-par-1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any snapshot (a valid QCOW2 image) imported to a Scaleway Object Storage bucket, can be imported into Instances in the same region as the snapshot. This allows you to create Instances in other availability zones within the same region, for example you can deploy Instances in `fr-par-2` based on the snapshot exported from an Instance in `fr-par-1`.
```

> Any snapshot (a valid QCOW2 image) imported to a Scaleway Object Storage bucket, can be imported into Instances in the same region as the snapshot. This allows you to create Instances in other availability zones within the same region, for example you can deploy Instances in `fr-par-2` based on the snapshot exported from an Instance in `fr-par-1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any snapshot (a valid QCOW2 image) imported to a Scaleway Object Storage bucket can be imported into Instances in the same region as the snapshot. This allows you to create Instances in other Availability Zones within the same region, for example you can deploy Instances in `fr-par-2` based on the snapshot exported from an Instance in `fr-par-1`.
```

    The API returns an output as in the following example:
    ```json
    {
    "snapshot": {
        "id": "<snapshot_uuid>",
        "name": "my-imported-snapshot",
        "volume_type": "unified",
        "creation_date": "2022-07-25T15:27:48.654782+00:00",
        "modification_date": "2022-07-25T15:27:48.654782+00:00",
        "organization": "<scaleway_organization_id>",
        "project": "<scaleway_project_id>",
        "size": 10737418240,
        "state": "importing",
        "base_volume": null,
        "tags": [],
        "zone": "fr-par-1",
        "error_details": null
    },
    "task": {
        "id": "<task_uuid>",
        "description": "import_snapshot",
        "status": "pending",
        "href_from": "/snapshots/",
        "href_result": "snapshots/<snapshot_uuid>",
        "started_at": "2022-07-25T15:27:48.797883+00:00",
        "terminated_at": null
    }
    }
    ```

Once the snapshot has been imported, it becomes available in the list of snapshots in the AZ `fr-par-2`: 

<Lightbox src="scaleway-snapshot-imported.webp" alt="" />

<Message type="important">

> Imported snapshots should have a volume size comprised between one gigabyte and one terabyte.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Imported snapshots should have a volume size between one gigabyte and one terabyte.
```

---
meta:
  title: Using the snapshot import/export feature with the API
  description: This page explains how to import/export Instance snapshots using the Scaleway API
content:
  h1: Using the snapshot import/export feature with the API
  paragraph: This page explains how to import/export Instance snapshots using the Scaleway API
dates:
  validation: 2022-07-25
  posted: 2021-07-25
---

The snapshot transfer feature allows you to export or import Instances snapshots. 
Snapshots are created using the QCOW2 format and their data is stored in a Scaleway Object Storage Bucket. These images can then be used to create a copy of an Instance in a different AZ.

More information on the QCOW2 file format, and how to use it can be found in the [QEMU documentation](https://www.qemu.org/docs/master/system/images.html#cmdoption-image-formats-arg-qcow2).

<Message type="tip">

> This document shows you how to use this functionality using the Scaleway API. The import/export feature is also available in the console, CLI, and SDK.

Reviewer 3: maybe add link to the console procedure doc?
```suggestion
This page shows you how to use the snapshot import/export feature with the Scaleway API. The import/export feature is also available in the console, CLI, and SDK.
```

2. Create a snapshot from a volume.
    You will need to create a snapshot from the volume you want to export to use this functionality. If you have not done so already, refer to the [documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/compute/instances/how-to/create-a-snapshot#how-to-create-a-snapshot) for instructions on how to create a snapshot.

3. Call the `export` snapshot API endpoint to initiate the snapshot export. 
    For example, using curl:
    ```sh
    $ curl -X POST https://api.scaleway.com/instance/v1/zones/fr-par-1/snapshots/<snapshot_uuid>/export -H "X-Auth-Token: <scaleway_secret_id>" -H "Content-Type: application/json"  --data '{"bucket": "my-bucket", "key": "my-exported-snapshot.qcow2"}'
    ```
    The following information is required to run the command above: 
     - The Availability Zone of the snapshot (here: `fr-par-1`)
     - The secret key of your API keypair (`<scaleway_secret_id>`)
     - The snapshot ID (`<snapshot_uuid>`)
     - The name of the Object Storage bucket to store the snapshot (which has to exist in the same Scaleway region as the snapshot)

>      - A key (can be any acceptable key/object name for Scaleway S3 ( suffixing qcow2 images with `.qcow2`)

Reviewer: bracket doesn't close
